# Conclusion and Further Work

## Further Work
While the implementation of this chat application was successful, a more appropriate way to implement this program would be to allow users to communicate over different hosts. However, this was outside the scope of the project. Moreover, additional features can be equipped to enhance the users experience and the overall application. A database that can store, update and interact with chat data can be integrated to facilitate a number of other features. For example, allowing users to create and update their own individual accounts, upload profile pictures and see their chat history. An interface can be developed to allow a user to sign up for, or into, their pre-existing account. Additionally, other features such as allowing the user to send pictures, sounds and other files over the chat application can be incorporated to add another layer of depth and functionality.


## Conclusion
This project looked at implementing a multi-client chat application using Sockets and the TCP networking protocol in Java. The incorporation of these technologies was successful within the application to complete the overall goal of the project. Furthermore, this document clearly demonstrated and outlined the project requirements, the consideration of different networking protocols during the design process and the decisions made to use TCP. Moreover, it discussed the steps taken in order to implement the TCP protocol into this project and how it was achieved by providing detailed code snippets and explanations. A simple server GUI was designed and created to document and log events such as when a user logs on or logs off, all message transmissions, and  to record how many users are using the application during a chat session. Moreover, a simple and easy to use client GUI was created to allow users to sign in anonymously or with a custom user name, allow a user to send and receive messages and also view the other users within the groupchat. In conclusion, the application was successful in production and also met the requirements of deliverables given.
