# System Requirements and Specification

To successfully develop a group chat application using java socket programming there are a number of factors to consider. Whilst the specification for design is light and not explicitly defined, there are core decisions to be made before implementation. This application must be able to support multiple clients connected to one server and allow all clients to submit their messages and for all other clients to be updated with the message. Using a threaded implementation of the system should also be considered. This chapter will look at the different tools and protocols available to the developers and draw a conclusion as to what the suitable options are that best fit this application's requirements. As this particular application needs to have the capability of passing information/messages over a network, selecting the correct protocol for the transmission of these messages will be an essential factor to consider. The main protocols that will be explored will be TCP and UDP. They are both the prominent protocols to consider when designing an application with the requirements outlined in the brief. Amongst the decisions to be made about which protocol to choose, the method of implementing the chosen protocol using Java will also have to be considered. How to design the system around a multi-threaded model using Java will be explored in order to have an efficient flow of transmissions as more and more clients are added to the system. Other considerations include what the client interface will look like and what tools/libraries will be used to implement the UI. The server UI is an optional component of the specified brief. Should the server GUI be elected for implementation, similar considerations for tools and libraries will be made to implement the server UI component.

  