## User Interface Considerations

This section will outline what the required GUI's are, the tools chosen to develop them and other decisions made based upon the GUI specification. As per what is required in the specification, the client programs require a graphical user interface. The server GUI is optional but to accurately represent each action and transmission in the program, the server GUI will be a huge asset to demonstrating what is happening at each step of every message transmission, thus, implementation of the server interface was deemed necessary. Because the program will be implemented using Java, it makes suitable sense to utilise one of Java's graphics libraries to draw the interface to the screen. The libraries that will be used for implementation will be the Java Swing libraries. This means that the program can be written entirely in one programming language adn there won't need to be any considerations for cross-technology compatibility issues. In terms of core functionality, the client GUI should incorporate a button to fire off a "send message" event, a textarea that displays the user of the current client session and also a textarea that displays all transmissions/messages from all clients in a group-chat-like manner. The server GUI should be able to log all events that occur within the system and any interchanging of messages and transmissions. This should be presented on the interface with a textarea that simply logs all interactions in the system. Other useful features include the client being able to connect/disconnect from the chat, a textarea incorporated into the client UI to show all connected users, the client being able to set their username/id and also incorporating a button into the server UI to display all connected users on request.

Insert empty line at end of section

